---
title: "a game - pugilica"
date: 2017-02-20
draft: false
---

Coming up with a great game idea was a lot harder than I initially thought, but
then why did I think it would be easy anyway?

Enter Pugilica, a game I thought up while toying with some dice and card
mechanics. The basic mechanic for the game would be players taking turns to roll
the dice, the roll deciding how many cards they could play that turn to effect
other players.

I stuck some electrical tape on some blank dice and drew up a few cards while
boxing glove tokens from [thingiverse](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1610950) 
finished in the 3d printer.

## Pugilica
Pick up your gloves, pull up your socks, and engage in gentlemanly combat.

The game is themed around a gentlemanly boxing match, pitting two pugilists
against each other, the winning combatant of three matches takes the cup and
wins the game.

![THE 3D PRINTED STAMINA TOKENS AND DICE](/images/posts/2017-02-20-a-game-pugilica/stamina-tokens-and-dice.jpg)

Players take turns to roll their ‘fists’ (two six-sided dice) and see if they
are able to land a blow. The cards the player can use this round are decided by
the number of fists each card requires to be played. If you roll two fists, you
can play one card that needs two fists or two cards that need one.

Playing a card takes a number of stamina tokens from your opponent, the first to
deplete all of their opponent’s stamina wins the round. The first player to win
two rounds wins the game.

## The Game Pieces
The game is played with cards, tokens and dice. The contents:

 * 2 Fists (6 sided die 1/2 chance to get a fist)
 * 8 Stamina Tokens
 * 36 playing cards
 * 4 Dodge cards
 * 2 Respite cards
 * 30 Manoeuvre Cards
 
![THE FULL CONTENTS OF THE GAME](/images/posts/2017-02-20-a-game-pugilica/spread-cards.jpg)

## Playing the game
Each player gets four stamina tokens and is dealt four cards from the freshly
shuffled deck. Flip a coin to decide who goes first, as is the tradition in a
gentlemanly game.

The first player rolls the dice, the number of fists they roll decides how many
cards they can play. If the first player rolls one fist they can play any card
with a single dot in the top right corner, if they roll two they can play two
cards with one dot or one card with two.

The players continue to take turns rolling the dice, resolving any cards they
wish to play and handing the dice to their opponent.

![A GAME IN PROGRESS](/images/posts/2017-02-20-a-game-pugilica/play-setup.jpg)

Game play proceeds until one of the players has no remaining stamina tokens. The
players both get their stamina back and the loosing player starts the next round
by rolling the dice again. The game is won by the player that wins two of the
three rounds.

I approached challenge by researching as much as I could about game
mechanics, specifically balancing luck and skill in a game. This game is my
first attempt at achieving that balance, I hope you enjoyed reading about it.
